+++
draft = false
date = "2016-01-17"
title = "Books"
wikis = ["random"]
rtags = ["cognitive"]
+++

There's something about learning from a physical object that makes things
"click" better in my head (it has volume, texture; a particular smell); and I
doubt I'm an oddity in this respect -- the root of this effect may be
biological: For example, when recalling some piece of information, often I can
remember where -- within some textbook I read half a decade ago -- the subject
is explained. And I do mean, a literal, *physical* "where": a page, (a
*thing*,) which at all times can be found tucked somewhere within a physical
stack of bound paper, which I can touch and feel; I might even remember where I
was sitting (or standing, or lying), as I held that particular book, open at
that page, when I studied the subject, and what it felt like to the touch, and
how the lighting in the room fell on the paper; maybe I jotted some note on the
margin, maybe I spilled tea on the pages before, giving that "where" its own
unique irregular texture and color -- all of which my brain will forever
associate with that information. Digital can't do any of that.

In this sense, there is nothing left to improve about the physical book.

On the other hand, if once I open this book I find myself confused, (maybe
because the book was written by a guy named named Spivak, who does not like to
explain what happens in between those little "=" symbols,) I can't press on
anything and expect it to expand magically and reveal more detail. It's at this
point that I will turn to my laptop, and search for more information, maybe
even ask a stranger half a world away, or watch an interactive video. My copy
of "Calculus on Manifolds" can't do any of that.

So even though ebooks do offer some perks, in many ways the printed book
remains superior. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/23/business/media/the-plot-twist-e-book-sales-slip-and-print-is-far-from-dead.html">I
think it's a safe bet that books aren't going anywhere</a>. Radio did not
replace print, TV did not replace radio. (Interactive did not replace passive;
print did not replace the spoken word.) Each of these media is better suited
for different tasks.

(I also still find that the best way to solve a problem (even a programming
problem), is with pen and paper. Physically jotting down an idea beats pressing
buttons while staring at an obnoxious, headache-inducing glowing screen any
time (which I try to avoid as much as possible, even as a software developer).
To me flipping pages still beats searching and clicking -- what a dreadful user
experience is a digital textbook!)

![](/img/quijote.jpg)
