+++
draft = false
date = "2017-02-11"
title = "Beliefs Vs Conclusions"
wikis = ["random"]
rtags = ["cognitive"]
+++

Your **beliefs** are axiomatic. They are at the core of how you interpret the
world around you and your understanding of what is "true". But just as with
mathematical axioms, beliefs are arbitrary -- they are not supported by facts
and logic, but rather color our interpretation of facts. Whether you believe
"Freedom is desirable" or "Subjugation is justified" in the end comes down to
choosing to believe so (Even if the first is further derived from the belief
that "Suffering in others is bad", that in itself must be arbitrarily asserted,
and so on).

The **conclusions** you form on the other hand are not arbitrary. As the name
implies, they represent some terminal point at the end of a chain of logical
assertions, ultimately stemming from your beliefs, the quality of your logic,
and whatever information is available to you at the time.

And it goes without saying: whatever information *is* available to you is
incomplete or incorrect, make no mistake.

---

Sometimes your beliefs can feel like conclusions: you may convince yourself you
have arrived at some belief out of careful deliberation, when in reality you've
worked the conclusion backwards, merely stringing together facts that support
your chosen belief.

---

Given the same information, but different beliefs, you and a friend might arrive
at different conclusions; each conclusion being perfectly logical.

Choose your axioms carefully!

---

Given the same beliefs, but access to different information, you and your friend
might again conclude differently.

Ask not only "Is my logic sound?": what would I have concluded had `x` unknown
been such and such? Or, what would I have concluded if I were to believe `B`
instead of `A`?

---

By playing and combining competing sets of axioms (and even logics themselves),
and arriving at (sometimes contradictory) theorems, mathematicians have gained a
richer understanding of the "truths" that exist within the mathematical
spectrum<sup>1</sup> -- but none is more "true" than the other.

So in the "real world": don't fool yourself into believing you have, or are
capable of arriving at a "The Truth".

(Even if such one exists, the question here is: can it even be
[formulated](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G%C3%B6del's_incompleteness_theorems)?
Can such a formulation be trusted? It's turtles all the way down!)

---

Your beliefs and conclusions, even if "logically" formulated, even if you
suspend all belief and assume you possess all relevant information, even then
all you can aspire to is that your conclusions be one of many equally valid
ways of coloring "Truth".

The best way to go about, you don't want to go completely mad, is to pick a few,
and be mindful that each one of these is just one more way of further enriching
the limited flavor of reality that was assigned to you.

... I think.

---

<small>

<ol>
  <li>
    At the same time, thinking too much about the philosophical and existential
    implications of [mathematical
    formalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formalism_(philosophy_of_mathematics))
    is bound to drive you absolutely mad. *Caveat emptor*!
  </li>
</ol>
</small>
